Green Screen Tutorial (#74)
runwayml/learn: docs/video-tools/green-screen.md

# Green Screen

<img src="assets/images/video-tools/green-screen/banner.png" alt="Banner image of Green Screen">

?> Click [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-2UBoklCtjk&feature=youtu.be) for a video walk-through of Green Screen.

## What is Green Screen? 

> Green Screen is our first video tools which allows you to cut out objects from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Green Screen is our first video tool which allows you to cut out objects from
```

> Green Screen is our first video tools which allows you to cut out objects from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Green Screen tool allows you to cut out objects from
```

videos, a process known as rotoscoping. This is the bread-and-butter of video

> manipulation.  Once you have a cutout of your video, you can swap out the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
manipulation. Once you have a cutout of your video, you can swap out the
```

background, display text behind it, or even selectively apply visual effects to
the region.

<img src="assets/images/video-tools/green-screen/composite.gif" alt="Sample motion graphics ouptut">

Most tools for rotoscoping require painstaking frame-by-frame edits by

> manually highlighting the border of objects. We created Green Screen because
> we think this process should be a lot easier. Here are the steps to get

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
manually highlighting the border of objects. With Runway, you can create professional masks and cut objects from videos with **just a few clicks**. Here are the steps to get
```

started...

> ## Step 1: Clip selection

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Choose your Clip
```

> Open Green Screen by clicking on **Video Tools** under the media sidebar. Now

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open Green Screen by clicking on **Video Tools** under the media sidebar. Next,
```

> select an asset by opening the **Assets** sidebar. All of your exports from
> other Runway tools appear here. If you want to use an asset from your computer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
select an asset by opening the **Assets** sidebar. All of your previous exports from
Runway appear here. If you want to use an asset from your computer
```

> or external software, you can simply drag and drop onto the interface to get

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or external software, you can simply drag and drop it onto the interface to get
```

started.

<img src="assets/images/video-tools/green-screen/clip-selection.gif" alt="Gif opening the assets bar">

?> Our tool is designed to track individual objects throughout a scene. If you

> have lots of footage to cut, it's best to trim into clips with relatively

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have lots of footage to cut, it's best to trim it into separate clips with relatively
```

consistent camera angles and lighting conditions, and then edit each one with
Green Screen individually. If you want to track two separate objects in the

> same video, we recommend you use Green Screen twice to track them separately.

Reviewer: 👍

> ## Step 2: Creating keyframes

Reviewer 3: I would suggest more direct and actionable titles. Something like:

```suggestion
## Step 2: Click the object you want to keep
```

To start off the process, seek to an initial frame which contains the desired

> object in clear view. Using clicks indicate which parts of the frame contain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
object in clear view. Using clicks indicate, which parts of the frame contain
```

> the your target. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the object you'd like to mask. 
```

> object in clear view. Using clicks indicate which parts of the frame contain
> the your target. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
object in clear view. Then click on the object in the frame to create your initial mask.
```

The toolbar above the timeline allows you to switch between
**Include** clicks which expand the mask to the clicked location and
**Exclude** clicks which retract the mask. You can also swap between
**Foreground** and **Background** to see what the masked object looks like.

Now that you have an initial mask, you can click **Preview** to see the

> expected result if you were to propagte the mask to the rest of the video. You

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
expected result if you were to propagate the mask to the rest of the video. You
```

> expected result if you were to propagte the mask to the rest of the video. You

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expected result if you were to propagate the mask to the rest of the video. You
```

Should we instead say "apply" here?

can also click on the timeline or use the arrow keys to check the results on a
frame-by-frame basis.

<img src="assets/images/video-tools/green-screen/click-and-propagate.gif" alt="Gif clicking to generate initial mask and then propagating">

?> You'll notice that there are regions of video where masking can be improved.
The goal is to create a set of keyframes from which Green Screen can estimate
the mask for the whole video. A new keyframe is usually neded when the target
apperance changes (e.g. a body part appears for the first time, the subject

> moves to a different background, or lighting conditions vary).

Reviewer: 👍

Now you rinse-and-repeat, creating keyframes where the current results are
lacking, and then previewing the updated results. Depending on the amount of
movement and background complexity, Green Screen may need just a pair of

> keyframes or one every couple of seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keyframes for the entire clip, or it may require one keyframe every few seconds.
```

## Step 3: Exporting your result

Once you're satisfied with the mask, click **Export** to output a video file.

> You can change the name of the video, and select a chroma-key background.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can change the name of the video, and select a [chroma-key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chroma_key) background.
```

<img src="assets/images/video-tools/green-screen/export.gif" alt="Gif showing the export process">

The output will appear in your **Assets**, from which you can export the file
into other software to add visual effects.

> ## Bonus: compositing text with iMovie

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Bonus: Compositing text with iMovie
```

Using our exported file in any video editor or compositor is quite easy. Here
we use iMovie, but similar effects can be achieved with most video software.

First, place the desired text on top of your source video. Then, import the
output from Green Screen into iMovie and place it on top of the desired text.
By applying a the green-screen effect, as shown
[here](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT210891) you can overlay just the
subject on top of the text.

<img src="assets/images/video-tools/green-screen/compositing.gif" alt="Gif showing how to composite with iMovie">

> Congratulations, you've just done your first Green Screen!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Congratulations, you've just done your first Green Screen! 

If you have any questions or feedback, [let us know](mailto:support@runwayml.com)! We can't wait to see what you create.
```
